Some people say this world is ugly.
yet it is beautiful at the same time.
l don't know if they are right.
but l'm about to see the world
with fresh eyes.
Wong Kar Mun. l'm giving you
a local anaesthetic now.
The operation will take about 2 hours.
Are you ready?
Who's that?
Quiet!
We don't want to alarm the nurses.
l am in the bed next to yours.
l heard that you
just had an eye operation.
l've had many operations here.
l know the whole hospital.
They're all nice to me.
How old are you?
Why so many operations?
l'm 11. l should have been
in junior high by now.
but my mother says l have a
brain tumour which affects my nerves...
That's why l pass out all the time.
They have to remove it.
But it's so large and dangerous
they have to operate many times.
So l skipped school last year
and stayed here ever since.
You're so young. yet so brave!
Once you can see again.
l'll take you out to play.
The world is really beautiful.
Wong Kar Mun. when l remove
the bandages from your eyes.
it might hurt a little at first.
lf it hurts too much. let me know.
We can always do it tomorrow.
Now let's try.
Open your eyes slowly.
Hey. don't force yourself
if it hurts.
lt hurts!
ls it too painful?
Dr Lo. she must be in a lot of pain!
She hasn't cried out in pain
ever since she was a kid!
Grandma. let Dr Lo do his job.
Please don't be worried about it.
Very few patients experience
full and immediate success.
lt takes time for the eye and brain
to work together.
Come on.
Ying Ying.
Hi. can you see now?
l'm Ying Ying.
Can you really see me?
l think l can see. l'm not sure.
Great! You can see!
Nurse. she can see!
Nurse. her eyes are working!
She sees me! Come quick.
Grandma! The hospital called.
- What?
- Mun can see!
- Let's go to the hospital now.
- OK.
Are you going to discharge me now?
Not so soon.
Every cornea recipient starts off
near-sighted by as much as 1.000 degrees.
Only when your eye muscles
are able to adapt.
will this fall to about 200 degrees.
- When will she have perfect eyesight?
- No one has perfect eyesight.
Most people are near-sighted by
about 100 degrees.
Does that mean she
will need to wear glasses?
That won't be necessary.
All she needs is a pair of sunglasses.
Mun. get some rest.
lf everything goes well.
you can be released early.
You can take off your sunglasses now.
Try to get used to the light gradually.
lf you feel pain.
or if your eyes start watering.
then you should close your eyes
and let your eyes rest.
- Here. l'll help you onto the bed.
- Nurse?
ls there a mirror in every washroom?
Yes. l'll take you there.
Here.
Slowly.
Take your time and call me
if you need anything.
Who's that?
Ying Ying. is that you?
Why are you so quiet?
l'm having another operation tomorrow.
You promised to take me out
once l can see.
We'll go out and have fun
after your operation.
Did they say you can
leave the hospital already?
Not yet. But even if l do.
l can always drop by for a visit.
Let's take a picture together.
- Let's do it outside!
- All right.
- Let's go...
- But where?
Let's go that way!
- What's this?
- A camera!
- A camera?
- Now. look this way.
Ready...1. 2. 3!
Madam. are you all right?
Hello...
l'm freezing...
Send this one to Block C.
We have a full-house in Block B.
Nurse. did the old lady pass away?
Yes. we have taken her away.
But last night.
l saw someone drop by to visit her.
They even went out together.
Are you sure? We don't allow
any visitors here at night.
- Where's Ying Ying?
- She went for an operation this morning.
Dr Lo preferred that
you stay for two more days
but because l'll be away
on flight duty for two weeks.
no one would be able to pick you up.
lt was easier to have you
discharged now.
So you and grandma
can spend more time together.
My... it's already 3:00 pm!
Hope this place
is not too hard to find...
l should have postponed it...
After meeting the therapist.
l'll put you in a taxi.
Hope we won't be too late.
We're only 10 minutes late
for our appointment.
l have to leave for work soon.
l'm sorry. Dr Lo just stepped
out for a few minutes.
- OK.
- There he is.
- ls my three o'clock here?
- Yes. they are.
Mun. let's go.
Let me introduce you
to the nature of my work.
From now on. l am
Ms Wong Kar Mun's psychotherapist.
Since Ms Wong lost her sight
at the age of two.
her visual vocabulary
is extremely limited.
and she has probably forgotten
most of that.
Let's say...
Ms Wong. could you please
remove your glasses.
and let your eyes
get used to the light?
Can you tell me
what's in my hand?
You'll recognize that it's a stapler
once you touch it.
because all your previous knowledge
of objects was through touch. not sight.
Now you are no longer blind.
My job is to help you re-establish
how to use your eyes
and understand what you see.
Actually. l'm not too worried
about that aspect.
What concerns me
is your psychological state.
After regaining sight many patients
end up feeling alienated and fearful.
Dr Lo. is the other Dr Lo
a relative of yours?
You mean Dr C.T. Lo?
Yes. he's my uncle.
So...what time
do you finish work today?
Ms Wong is my last patient
for the day.
You see. l need to catch my flight. Can l
trouble you to send Mun home after this?
l see... of course.
After all. starting from today...
l need to take Ms Wong outdoors
for her training anyway.
You can go ahead.
l'm fine by myself. l'm used to it.
That's you as a little girl.
Your father filmed this
a long time ago
so that you could see it
if your eyes ever healed.
He stopped filming
after he divorced your mother.
That was seven or eight years ago.
Grandma. is it true when Dad comes
back. he'll take us to Vancouver?
l know you don't want to go.
but life in Vancouver
moves at a slower pace.
lt will be better for you.
l can't even read Chinese.
how will l learn English?
Grandma. l don't want to rely
on others forever.
l want to learn to write
and find a job in Hong Kong.
l want to be independent.
Your father would worry about you
going to work.
l have to do the dishes.
l'll leave you to watch this alone.
- Can l help you?
- Have you seen my report card?
No. do you live around here?
Mun. who's that?
lt's a little boy. Grandma.
Did a report card ever turn up
on our balcony?
That kid is teasing you.
Just ignore him.
Kid. what are you eating?
l'm hungry.
What's your problem?
Everyone. we have
two pieces of good news today.
First...
Ms Tone Deaf
had a successful operation!
And second.
for our Christmas charity concert
we will be performing with
Vanessa Mae!
Mr Cheng. why haven't l
received the practice schedule?
Mun. you know. after all
we're an organization for the blind.
You're always welcome
to come to practice
but perhaps you should
do something else for the performance.
such as coordination.
or taking care of our members.
l can even arrange for you
to help out at the centre.
Mr Cheng. l really want to
take part in this performance.
l've practiced so long for this concert!
l understand. but...
Excuse me. Mr Cheng.
Vanessa Mae's agent wants us
to fax over her schedule.
l'll be with you right away.
Mun. Mun?
Let's discuss this again.
l have to go.
- Grandma!
- Are you leaving?
- Yes. to class.
- Come back early for dinner.
- l've prepared some special turnip soup.
- Bye!
Have you seen my report card?
Didn't you find it yet?
l really haven't seen it.
Perhaps you should ask someone else.
Ying Ying!
Excuse me. l'd like to talk to her.
Look what l've brought for you?
l've just had chemo-therapy.
l'll throw up if l eat.
Then we'll save it
for when you get better.
lf only we had believed him
just that once.
or given him a chance to explain.
he might still be here
playing video games.
Who would have expected him
to jump off just like that?
Suicide is a dreadful sin.
The souls of those who commit suicide
are obliged to repeat
their painful deaths everyday.
To help him break out of this
vicious cycle of pain.
we need to tackle
the cause of his suicide.
Only then can his soul
leave this world in peace.
Have you ever considered
he might be telling the truth?
Perhaps he really did lose
his report card.
Have you been teaching
calligraphy long?
Yes. many years indeed.
l'll teach you how to hold the brush.
Use your thumb and middle finger
and form a circle like this.
Like this. try.
Very few want to
learn calligraphy nowadays.
l used to teach 3 lessons a week.
Now it is down to only one.
l'll let you try writing by yourself.
Try it yourself.
Why are you sitting in my chair?
What is this? What is going on?
What are you looking for?
Are you OK?
What happened?
Are you feeling unwell?
- ls Dr Lo here?
- Ms Wong. you are early.
Your next appointment
isn't until Friday.
He won't be back from
his meeting until 5:00 pm.
Will he definitely be here at 5:00 pm?
lf it's urgent. l can page him for you now.
l'll be back at 5:00 pm.
You can see them too?
They don't usually want to be seen.
But you'll get used to it.
All the stores nearby
have been bought up.
only my boss refuses to sell.
He seems to be expecting
his wife and child to visit.
Actually. he can't see them at all.
There was a car accident over there...
Mun!
My secretary said you were asking
for me. What's the matter?
- Will you help me?
- Of course. l will.
Your eyes hurt?
- Will you believe me?
- Yes.
What is it?
The shadows...
they come to bring the dead.
What shadow?
When l was at the hospital...
l saw a man.
He...he took that old lady with him.
The next morning.
the old lady was dead.
My room keeps changing suddenly
into a different room.
l even saw a person
missing her lower body.
When he rushed over.
it was like an electric shock.
My whole body went numb.
Calm down and tell me slowly.
When l was little...
Grandma told me...
l was not an ordinary child.
God had given me some obstacles
so that l would grow up to be
an extraordinary person.
Now l understand what it means
to be extraordinary.
An extraordinary person
can see things others can't
and feel pain that others won't feel.
Maybe. l was never meant
to see this world.
l don't want to go
to bed terrified every night
then awaken
to horrors every morning.
l just want to be an ordinary person.
Dr Lo. can you help me?
Yes. of course l will.
One of my psychology professors
from the States
has just come to Hong Kong to visit.
Let's go see him tomorrow.
He might be able to help.
How can you help me
when you don't believe me?
What's going on?
Excuse me. l have to go.
Call me if you need anything.
Goodbye.
- Who's that?
- A friend.
He asked your sister to
take something to the States.
Yes. that's right.
You are home early. Aren't you
supposed to be back next week?
Well... a co-worker
switched her shift with mine.
Why don't you go up?
lt's smoky here.
Have you seen my report card?
Stop asking me!
l've already told you l haven't seen it!
Have you seen my report card?
15th Floor. Unit C
Uncle. listen to me.
No way!
Only you can help us with this!
l've already said no!
lf you still respect me as your uncle.
and respect yourself as my nephew.
you should have never
approached me with this!
You should know only too well
what the medical ethics are
regarding organ transplants.
And you should also know
that the identity of the cornea donor
is concealed from me.
What shadow?
One cornea transplant and she starts
seeing ghosts? You actually believe that?
- What if l do?
- Then we have even less to talk about!
Uncle...
Don't tell me
you fell for your own patient.
- Hello?
- Dr Lo. is that you?
Mun is in trouble!
Can you come over immediately?
Yes. right away.
Yes. l admit.
She's more than a patient to me.
Mun!
How long do you plan on hiding
in this little room?
Five years? Seven? Or ten?
You have to confront your problem
sooner or later.
You want to play violin?
Go play with the troupe!
l can accept you
pretending to be blind.
But even then you didn't
isolate yourself here.
l just want to help.
Mun!
Mun.
Ying Ying. what are you doing here?
l can leave the hospital now.
You can?
Yes. l don't need any more operations.
l can go to school now.
Then once l'm out of here...
we can go out...
we can take pictures. we can even...
l'm so happy that you can see now...
because this world is really beautiful.
Ying Ying...
lt's all right. Cheer up.
Be strong and things
will work out for the best.
l have to go now.
Ying Ying!
Wong Kar Mun. l want to tell you...
Ying Ying has already...
l know... l just saw her.
l know she's dead.
What are you looking at?
Ying Ying.
Can you see her?
lt wasn't her.
Don't know why
she didn't show up today.
Are you not afraid anymore?
l don't think l have a choice.
l see all of these things anyway.
At least. l get to see
the people l care about.
- What's this?
- Ying Ying made this for you.
- What's written on it?
- ''Don't forget me''
She put in the wrong photo though.
Who's this?
lt's you.
Don't you recognize yourself yet?
What is going on?
Who are you?
Who the hell are you?
We believe that the last consciousness
of a mortal carries onto the afterlife.
That is. the very thought
of a person in his final moment...
would become the eternal
consciousness of his soul.
Those who die a sudden death
have no recollection
of the instance of death.
Their souls remain in this world
as if they're still alive.
But there are others
who intentionally refuse to leave.
mostly due to unresolved problems
during their lifetime.
These souls can't be consoled
while their problems remain.
There is only one way to help them.
and that is to resolve
what they left unsettled.
The woman Ms Wong keeps seeing
after resuming her sight.
We have to resolve her problems
so that she can move on.
l hope l haven't done anything wrong.
Even if it's wrong. it'd be my fault.
And l won't regret it.
Were you reincarnated
into the wrong body?
Why are you so different
from the rest of the family?
Be careful.
Bangkok. Thailand
Did Dr Lo believe you in the end?
Let's just say Dr Lo is not involved.
He's a professional after all -
you know what l mean?
Yes. Are we close?
l'm not sure.
lt says here that her Chinese name
was Chiu Wai Ling.
A Thai born Chinese.
Here are her hospital records.
This is Siam-Rach Hospital.
Sl-AM-LA?
This is probably the place.
Let's get off to take a look.
Please come help.
Can l help you?
He's not here now.
Wah!
What is it?
- This is the place.
- What place?
The place l've been
having nightmares about.
Nightmares?
This has to be it!
Doctor Eak.
- What's the matter?
- You have two visitors.
Mister. this is Dr Eak.
- Are you two from Hong Kong?
- You speak Mandarin?
Can you help us?
Sorry. l can't disclose
our hospital record.
This is our hospital policy.
Please understand.
Wait! We need to see
the donor's family urgently.
Could you perhaps ask them
if they're willing to meet us?
Her family will not be willing
to meet with you.
Who are you to Ling?
- Please leave.
- Wait!
After l got Ling's corneas.
l started to see things that she saw.
Ling was a sad and lonely girl.
All of the villagers stayed away from her.
Why?
From time to time.
she would weep outside someone's door.
Afterwards. a person in that house
would pass away.
So everyone took her to be a witch
and always chased her away
when they saw her.
The children treated her
like a monster.
even l threw stones at her
when l was a kid.
Because none of you could believe
that she foresaw death?
Maybe it was because of fear.
So. do you believe it now?
This is it.
Mrs Chui. these two friends
are from Hong Kong.
Nobody welcomed Ling.
So she hardly ever
set foot in the village.
Yet. on the night of the fire.
many people saw her running around
and shouting hysterically
as if talking to herself.
Since everyone detested Ling.
no one paid any attention to her.
Some villagers even threw water
on her to drive her away.
Around midnight. a big fire erupted
and kept burning till noon
the next day.
Among the deceased.
300 were burnt beyond recognition.
- How exactly did Ling die?
- She hanged herself.
Ling killed herself
the day after the big fire.
ls Mrs Chui all right?
She's fine.
So you too believed that
she wasn't insane.
but that she only saw things
no one else could.
She foresaw a big disaster
and tried to warn everyone.
but no one listened to her.
l don't understand
any of this spiritual stuff.
l just want you two to know
that Ling was a kind person...
and she had a tough life.
Can l take a look at Ling's room?
Tonight...l want to stay here.
l'll take you to Ling's grave
tomorrow morning.
Thank you for being so considerate.
You should go to bed now.
All right. l'll stay next door.
Shout if anything happens.
l know you've wanted me
to come here all this time.
Well. here l am now.
What do you want to tell me?
...ill-fated...ill-fated...
Hurry...take her to the hospital.
You should be ashamed of yourself.
You're a curse!
You speak evil.
l told you not to come here!
She's evil! Don't even talk to her!
Never play with her again!
Go save him! Save my boy.
Help him... Make him breathe.
What have you done to my boy?
You little witch!
Mrs Chui. l know how to help Ling.
Let's go upstairs to see her.
Her most painful time
was not in the past. but it's now.
Since she killed herself.
she's been trapped in a time warp
constantly repeating her suicide.
How can someone
who's dead die again?
Listen to me.
very soon she'll appear upstairs.
- Let's go up to see her!
- l won't see her!
l spent my whole life protecting her.
l never once gave up on her.
but she gave up on herself!
For that l can never forgive her!
Just listen.
l'm sure you hear this sound
every night.
Ling died at three o'clock. didn't she?
Mrs Chui. come with me
and you'll understand!
l'm not going upstairs!
Mom...
Help me...
Ling?
Help me!
Help me...help me...
ls it Ling?
ls it really Ling?
Mom...
Help me...
Ling. you were the one who left me...
you were the one who left me...
Mom... Help me...
Ling. Mummy is coming!
Ling! Ling!
My girl. mummy's right here.
Don't be afraid.
No one can bully you anymore.
Mom. l'm so sorry.
l was wrong.
Please forgive me.
l have already forgiven you.
Mun. what happened?
Are you all right?
Go that way! Move over.
Hurry! Pull him out.
Careful! Come on. keep pulling.
Over there! Move!
Get out!
Something's happening! Run!
Granny. leave your house now!
Leave your house now!
Run for your life!
Get out! Quick! Run!
Get out! Run.
Run for your life!
Run! A disaster is coming!
Run! Run now!
What's she saying?
Mun!
Go. go. go... Move over.
Move over!
Listen to me.
Mun...
Ever since that day.
Ling never appears again.
l hold no resentment towards her.
Since l saw and experienced
the same pain that she did.
But aside from pain. l saw beauty.
l no longer ask. ''Why l am blind?''
For l've seen some of the most
beautiful things in this world.
Things l'll never forget.